welcome to the man of recaps this is the
walking dead season 10
episode 22. we start off with maggie on
a pleasant morning walk with her son
herschel a pleasant walk which is ruined
because the guy who bashed his father's
head in with a baseball bat is standing
right over there now carol sees trouble
brewing here so she takes negan out for
a walk in fact she takes him to the
cabin she and daryl found in the other
episode she's like well negan bad news
uh we had a vote and you're banished so
you can live here now but negan's like
yo did the council
actually vote to banish me or is this
just you carol making the decision so
that night it's a time for introspection
as negan gets a visit from his past self
here to taunt him this makes negan think
about his iconic baseball bat lucille
remember no one picked it up after the
battle apparently they just left it
there where he dropped it so with not
much else to do negan goes back to the
site of that final battle and just
starts digging looking for it and
finally he finds it yes
negan has lucille again now strap
yourself in for the flashback cause it's
negan's origin story
it's told backwards because we start
when negan's already captured by some
sort of gang he's got a cooler of cancer
medication that he's trying to get back
to his wife but these guys are like yo
tell us where the supplies are or we
kill you a few days earlier negan a
desperate man
found these people with medical supplies
and tried to stick him up but he was
knocked out by a baseball bat by
yes you recognized this minor character
remember that's laura who was one of the
main saviors but then became a good
member of the group afterwards
unfortunately she was just killed by
beta we don't get their full story but
it seems her and her father somehow have
a bunch of medical supplies and here at
the beginning of the zombie apocalypse
they're driving around trying to help
people nikin explains he needs
chemotherapy meds for his wife and now
we go back a few more weeks to meet his
real-life wife lucille they had a pretty
decent setup here at the beginning of
the zombie apocalypse but she does have
cancer luckily they've got a stockpile
of chemotherapy meds and they've only
got a few sessions left negan's like yo
baby you're gonna beat this cancer then
together we're gonna beat this zombie
apocalypse
and it's a touching scene that night
they're snuggling for warmth and he can
start singing to her you are so
beautiful to me we get a little montage
of their life in the zombie apocalypse
together where they're just really happy
things are great but it's overshadowed
with the sadness of her cancer it's
i'm tearing up a little lucille gives me
get a present and it is his iconic
leather jacket
the jacket has its own backstory let's
go back a little while longer before the
zombie apocalypse negan's hanging out
playing video games trash talking
teenagers turns out he bought himself
this expensive leather jacket which is
bad cause like he doesn't have a job
right now he confirms he was as i always
imagined a high school gym teacher but
apparently he just recently beat some
guy up which put an assault
on a record so he was fired he was not a
great husband at this point in fact long
story short we find out he was screwing
around with her best friend
oh negan so now in the present they're
talking it out he's like i'm so sorry
baby and she's like hey
you've made up for it since then you've
been a great zombie apocalypse husband
anyway they've been having problems with
the generator and one night it finally
died the fridge d
thought and oh all the cancer meds are
ruined negan's heard about this medical
truck going around trying to help people
he's like yo i can track him down and
get you more chemotherapy meds she's
like yo baby forget it if you walk out
that door you might never come back just
stay with me and we'll live it out
happily till i die but he's like no
we're not giving up
we're gonna beat this and live happily
ever after so we've caught up to where
we are these guys give him the chemomeds
and because he doesn't have a weapon
laura gives him the baseball bat
that's where he got it but a little bit
later he was captured by this gang who's
now interrogating him and he has no
choice he has to give up their location
so he can get back to his wife but
unfortunately when he gets home it is
just too late he was gone for too long
lucille either ran out of supplies or
ran out of hope decided to end things
and now his zombie wife is here in bed
it's heartbreaking
and it's also a little mind-breaking
sends negan kind of down a dark path he
goes out and wraps his new bat with
barbed wire then decides to burn his
whole house down
the gang has medical guy hostage now but
negan comes in to save him and oh kills
his first living human
gunshot's outside he's on a rampage
apparently takes down the whole gang he
sits down with this guy and tells him a
long story talking like savior negan
used to and long story short this is
where he went from kind of a normal dude
to his dark zombie apocalypse persona
who has no qualms about bashing people's
heads in but negan's been through a lot
since then he's not going back to his
old ways in fact he went through all the
trouble of digging up his bat lucille
just to give it a proper funeral the bat
lucille is a stand-in for his wife
lucille and he gives a tearful farewell
sorry i wasn't there for you at the end
but i'm gonna keep fighting for you now
tosses the bat into the fire so the next
morning negan comes on back to
alexandria carol's like hey i thought i
banished you but he's like nah i'm on
banishing myself carol's like look if
you stick around here maggie is going to
kill you at some point and negan's like
well we'll see about that
he's done just trying to avoid her now
he stares her down and gives her a
little negan smirk
the interactions between these two is
going to be a really good part of season
11 but for now that's where the extended
season of the walking dead season 10
comes to an
end if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you loved
this recap
check out the join button and support
the channel as a member